Practical Exercise 13 - Working with Outputs
Exercise Description
In this practical exercise, our goal is to explore how to set outputs from within jobs and workflow.

Here are the instructions for the exercise:

Create a file named 12-outputs.yaml under the .github/workflows folder at the root of your repository.

Name the workflow 12 - Working with Outputs.

Add the following triggers with event filters and activity types to your workflow:

workflow_dispatch: the workflow_dispatch trigger should receive the following inputs:

build-status, of type choice, with the following options: success, failure. The default value should be success.

Add the following jobs:

The first job:

Should be named build

Should execute on ubuntu-latest

Should have two steps:

The first step, named Print GITHUB_OUTPUT path, should print the value of the environment variable GITHUB_OUTPUT

The second step, named Build, should have an id of build, and it should append the following line to the file whose path is stored in the GITHUB_OUTPUT variable: "status=<retrieve the value of the build-status input here>". If you are not sure how to append values to this file, check the Tips sections below.

Should provide an output named build-status, which contains the value of the status output from the step with an id of build.

The second job:

Should be named deploy

Should execute on ubuntu-latest

Should execute only after the build job successfully completes and if the status output of the build job equals success.

Should contain a single step named Deploy that prints the following message: "Deploying"

Commit the changes and push the code. Trigger the workflow from UI, providing varying values for the inputs. Take a few moments to inspect the output of the workflow runs. How did the different inputs influence the results of the workflow runs?

Tips
Appending values to a file in bash

To append values to a file, we can use the following syntax: echo "<line content>" >> "<file path>"