Practical Exercise 14 - Avoiding the Mistake of Overwritting the Output File
Exercise Description
In this practical exercise, our goal is to explore what happens when we accidentally overwrite the content of the GITHUB_OUTPUT file.

Here are the instructions for the exercise:

Extend the workflow in the 12-outputs.yaml file:

Add the following outputs to the step with an id of build:

output1 should contain the value value1

output2 should contain the value value2

Add the following output to the build job:

output1 should contain the value of the output1 output from the build step.

Additionally, in the build step, add a new line to print the contents of the file referenced by the GITHUB_OUTPUT variable.

Add the following line after printing the contents of the file: echo "mistake=true" > "$GITHUB_OUTPUT" (the mistake in using > instead of >> is intentional).

Add a new line to print the contents of the same file again.

Add a new step to the deploy job:

The step should be named Print Outputs

The step should print the value of output1 from the build job.

Commit the changes and push the code. Trigger the workflow from the UI and take a few moments to inspect the results of the workflow runs. What happens with the values of the outputs from the build job?

Now move the line which mistakenly overwrites the contents of the GITHUB_OUTPUT file to its own step. To do that:

Create a new step, named Step with mistake, after the Build step in the build job.

Move the following lines from the Build step to the Step with mistake step:

echo "output2=value2" >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
cat "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
Commit the changes and push the code. Trigger the workflow from the UI and take a few moments to inspect the results of the workflow runs. What happens with the values of the outputs from the build job?